Add WGSLLanguageFeatures content (#27295)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/wgsllanguagefeatures/index.md

---
title: WGSLLanguageFeatures
slug: Web/API/WGSLLanguageFeatures
page-type: web-api-interface
status:
  - experimental
browser-compat: api.WGSLLanguageFeatures
---

{{APIRef("WebGPU API")}}{{SeeCompatTable}}

The **`WGSLLanguageFeatures`** interface of the {{domxref("WebGPU API", "WebGPU API", "", "nocode")}} is a [setlike](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Set) object that reports the [WGSL language extensions](https://gpuweb.github.io/gpuweb/wgsl/#language-extension) supported by the WebGPU implementation.

The `WGSLLanguageFeatures` object is accessed via the {{domxref("GPU.wgslLanguageFeatures")}} property.

> You should note that not all WGSL language extensions will be available to WebGPU in all browsers that support it. If you are hoping to take advantage of a specific extension in a WebGPU app, thorough testing is advised.

Reviewer: does this need to go in a `Note:` box?

```suggestion
Note that not all WGSL language extensions are available to WebGPU in all browsers that support the API. We recommend you thoroughly test the extension you choose to use in a WebGPU app.
```
Nothing's wrong with the current style, the edit suggestion is to simplify the wording and change to active voice

Author: OK, I accepted your change and did a little bit more tweaking in my next commit, plus I've put it in a note box and make it consistent across both docs.

Reviewer: Looks good, thanks

{{InheritanceDiagram}}

## Available features

> We have not listed the exact set of WGSL language extensions available to be used in WebGPU, as it will vary between implementations and physical devices, and will change over time. For a list, refer to [WGSL language extensions](https://gpuweb.github.io/gpuweb/wgsl/#language-extension) in the WGSL specification.

Reviewer 2: This is an amusing way of saying "There are none", but I understand where it's coming from in terms of forward compatibility. :grin:

Reviewer 2: I'm not aware of anything coming down the pipe in the really near term. Pinging @dneto0 to see if he has any estimates to give on when we might first see this used.

Author: Cool, thanks.

> We have not listed the exact set of WGSL language extensions available to be used in WebGPU, as it will vary between implementations and physical devices, and will change over time. For a list, refer to [WGSL language extensions](https://gpuweb.github.io/gpuweb/wgsl/#language-extension) in the WGSL specification.

Reviewer: how about the following take:

```suggestion
The available WGSL language extensions that can be used in WebGPU can vary across implementations and physical devices and may also change over time. For a complete list, refer to [WGSL language extensions](https://gpuweb.github.io/gpuweb/wgsl/#language-extension) in the WGSL specification.
```

Author: Again, committed but then tweaked. I thought it was still important to still say that we made a conscious decision to not list them here.

## Instance properties

> The following property is available to all read-only [setlike](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Set) objects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following property is available to all read-only [setlike](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Set) objects:
```

> The following properties are available to all read-only [setlike](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Set) objects (the below links are to the {{jsxref("Set")}} global object reference pages).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following property is available to all read-only [setlike](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Set) objects (the property link is to the {{jsxref("Set")}} global object reference page):
```
Can we omit this "(the below links are to the {{jsxref("Set")}} global object reference pages)"?

Author: Yeah, I ended up using pretty much your wording, and getting rid of the parens. they were just awkward, and didn't really add much.

- {{jsxref("Set.prototype.size", "size")}} {{Experimental_Inline}}
  - : Returns the number of values in the set.

## Instance methods

> The following methods are available to all read-only [setlike](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Set) objects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following methods are available to all read-only [setlike](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Set) objects:
```

> The following methods are available to all read-only [setlike](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Set) objects (the below links are to the {{jsxref("Set")}} global object reference pages).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following methods are available to all read-only [setlike](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Set) objects (the links below are to the {{jsxref("Set")}} global object reference pages).
```

> - {{jsxref("Set.prototype.has()", "has()")}} {{Experimental_Inline}}
>   - : Returns a boolean asserting whether an element is present with the given value in the set or not.
> - {{jsxref("Set.prototype.values()", "values()")}} {{Experimental_Inline}}
>   - : Returns a new iterator object that yields the **values** for each element in the set in insertion order.
> - {{jsxref("Set.prototype.keys()", "keys()")}} {{Experimental_Inline}}
>   - : An alias for {{jsxref("Set.prototype.values()", "values()")}}.
> - {{jsxref("Set.prototype.entries()", "entries()")}} {{Experimental_Inline}}
>   - : Returns a new iterator object that contains **an array of `[value, value]`** for each element in the set, in insertion order.
> - {{jsxref("Set.prototype.forEach()", "forEach()")}} {{Experimental_Inline}}
>   - : Calls a provided callback function once for each value present in the set, in insertion order.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- {{jsxref("Set.prototype.has()", "has()")}} {{Experimental_Inline}}
  - : Returns a boolean asserting whether or not an element with the given value is present in the set.
- {{jsxref("Set.prototype.values()", "values()")}} {{Experimental_Inline}}
  - : Returns a new iterator object that yields **values** for each element in the set in insertion order.
- {{jsxref("Set.prototype.keys()", "keys()")}} {{Experimental_Inline}}
  - : An alias for {{jsxref("Set.prototype.values()", "values()")}}.
- {{jsxref("Set.prototype.entries()", "entries()")}} {{Experimental_Inline}}
  - : Returns a new iterator object that contains **an array of `[value, value]`** for each element in the set in insertion order.
- {{jsxref("Set.prototype.forEach()", "forEach()")}} {{Experimental_Inline}}
  - : Calls the provided callback function once for each value present in the set in insertion order.
```

## Examples

```js
async function init() {
  if (!navigator.gpu) {
    throw Error("WebGPU not supported.");
  }

  const wgslFeatures = navigator.gpu.wgslLanguageFeatures;

  // Return the size of the set
  console.log(wgslFeatures.size);

  // Iterate through all the set values using values()
  const valueIterator = wgslFeatures.values();
  for (const value of valueIterator) {
    console.log(value);
  }

  // ...
}
```

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

## See also

> - The [WebGPU API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/WebGPU_API)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [WebGPU API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/WebGPU_API)
```
